# Classifying-Cardio-Vascular-Disease-Using-Machine-Learning-In-Python
	Heart diseases are the main cause of death globally that is more people die annually from heart diseases than from any other cause. An estimated 17.9 million people died from heart attacks in 2016, representing 31% of all global deaths of these 85% are died due to heart attacks – WHO. Most Heart diseases can be prevented by taking some risk factors into consideration like age, diet, obesity, physical inactivity, etc. These all patients details are stored by the hospitals in their respective hospital’s databases or physically in paper format but they are not using it for any purpose.

	In this age of data science dealing with data became intelligent and easy. For that purpose there are various tools, techniques and methods that are proposed. We applied various data science algorithms such as KNN(k-nearest neighbour) is mostly used for classification and regression analysis and in the same way SVM(Support Vector machine) is a classification algorithm used to classify data using training examples to classify data and get prediction for target. 

Machine Learning is used around the world in various organizations in various fields. The healthcare industry cannot be negligible. Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence are playing a very crucial role in predicting existence or absence of disorders, lung diseases and more. We are predicting heart diseases well in advance using information that is data given by hospital used to provide a great value of information to the doctors so they can prescribe the patient with better treatment. The algorithms used to predict heart diseases are Decision Tree Classifier, K Neighbours Classifier, Random Forest Classifier, Principal Component Analysis and Support Vector Classifier. We applied many operations on data in order to make data efficient and consistent without outliers, missing values, etc so that while applying algorithms they can perform more efficiently. We used Train Test Split and also K-Fold Cross Validation to train and test the efficiency of algorithm when the data is applied. The accuracy of each algorithm is given in the comparison table. 
